# Week 3A - Review of weeks 1 & 2

## I. Announcement - Quiz #1

- Quiz #1 will be given this Thursday 1/27 (Week 3B, next class)
  - has a fairly low grade weight, it counts as a "checkoff" assignment
  - 10 questions, a mix of conceptual and "write some code"
  - **BRING A PEN/PENCIL. This will be on paper!**
  - topics are: functions, arrays, XML, JSON
  - you should review weeks 1A-2B and your notes
  - will have 15 minutes at end of class
  - no "makeups" without prior approval
  - the quiz is primarily about giving formative feedback to help prepare you for the first exam - so don’t stress out over it :-)
  - if you have any questions, DM them to me here in Slack

<hr>

## II. Bulma

- Reminder - the Bulma HW is due tomorrow night:
  - https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-330-Master/blob/master/notes/HW-bulma-1.md

<hr>

## III. Review Technobabble IV. - VI.
- The GOOD:
  - they all worked!
  - none of them loaded the data files every time the user clicked the "Get Babble" button
  - almost everyone remembered to follow our [IGME-330 - Course Code Style Requirements](../projects/330-code-style.md)
- Code quality & structure issues to discuss:
  - Anti-pattern: initializing button click events BEFORE the babble data had loaded
    - what if the user clicked the button before the data was loaded? (the app would fail)
    - instead, don't enable the buttons until AFTER the babble data has loaded (in `xhr.onload`)
  - Anti-pattern: updating the DOM in a loop when the "5 Babble" button was clicked
    - instead, concatenate a local string variable and update the document ONCE
  - Redundant code: `"use strict"` and a `window.onload` event handler in an *ES6 module*
    - both are not needed in ES6 modules as they run in strict mode by default, and `defer` by default
  - Organization issue: data files like **babble.json** in the same folder as your JS files
    - instead, put data files in a **data/** folder
  - Anti-pattern: overly-complicated JSON structure for Technobabble-VI. often lead to positional parsing of the data (like the CSV file) rather than parsing by property name
    - instead, a simple JSON structure like the one seen below would have sufficed:
 
 ```json
{
  "words1" : ["Acute","Aft"], 
  "words2" : ["Propulsion","Dissipation"],
  "words3" : ["Chamber","Interface"]
}
```

### III-A. Links
- [HW - Technobabble Generator IV - CSV](https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-330-Master/blob/master/notes/HW-technobabble-4.md)
- [HW - Technobabble Generator V - XML](https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-330-Master/blob/master/notes/HW-technobabble-5.md)
- [HW - Technobabble Generator VI - JSON](https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-330-Master/blob/master/notes/HW-technobabble-6.md)
- [IGME-330 - Course Code Style Requirements](../projects/330-code-style.md)
- [JavaScript Code Style](../projects/intro-code-style.md)
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-pattern

<hr>

## IV. Recap - what's the major new stuff we've done so far this semester?

- 235 Review - accessing DOM (`document.querySelector()` & `document.querySelectorAll()`), XHR & Media Queries
- Code style/quality/Linting
- ES6 arrow functions
- ES6 modules and `import`/`export` (plus helper functions, **utils.js** file)
- `array.split()`, `array.map()`, `array.join()`
- `xhr.responseXML` and how to parse XML documents
- `xhr.responseText`, `JSON.parse()` and `try`/`catch` blocks
- authoring your own data files in CSV, XML and JSON

<hr>

## V. In-class - *Blackout Poetry Maker & Rita.js* 

- [Blackout Poetry Maker & RiTa.js](https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-330-Master/blob/master/notes/blackout-poetry-maker.md)





<hr><hr>

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
| [**Week 2B Notes**](02B.md)     |  [**IGME-330 Schedule**](../schedule.md) | [**Week 3B Notes**](03B.md)
